Feature  Review
Genomic  Selection  in  Plant
Breeding:  Methods,  Models,
and  Perspectives
José  Crossa,1,*Paulino  Pérez-Rodríguez,2Jaime  Cuevas,3
Osval  Montesinos-López,4Diego  Jarquín,5
Gustavo  de  los  Campos,6Juan  Burgueño,1
Juan  M.  González-Camacho,2Sergio  Pérez-Elizalde,2
Yoseph  Beyene,1Susanne  Dreisigacker,1Ravi  Singh,1
Xuecai  Zhang,1Manje  Gowda,1Manish  Roorkiwal,7
Jessica  Rutkoski,8and  Rajeev  K.  Varshney7,*
Genomic  selection  (GS)  facilitates  the  rapid  selection  of  superior  genotypes
and  accelerates  the  breeding  cycle.  In  this  review,  we  discuss  the  history,
principles,  and  basis  of  GS  and  genomic-enabled  prediction  (GP)  as  well  as  the
genetics  and  statistical  complexities  of  GP  models,  including  genomic  geno-
type  /C2  environment  (G  /C2  E)  interactions.  We  also  examine  the  accuracy  of  GP
models  and  methods  for  two  cereal  crops  and  two  legume  crops  based  on
random  cross-validation.  GS  applied  to  maize  breeding  has  shown  tangible
genetic  gains.  Based  on  GP  results,  we  speculate  how  GS  in  germplasm
enhancement  (i.e.,  prebreeding)  programs  could  accelerate  the  ﬂow  of  genes
from  gene  bank  accessions  to  elite  lines.  Recent  advances  in  hyperspectral
image  technology  could  be  combined  with  GS  and  pedigree-assisted  breeding.
The  Role  of  Genomic-Enabled  Prediction  in  Plant  Breeding
Beginning  during  the  1980s,  the  development  of  different  molecular  marker  systems  drastically
increased  the  total  number  of  polymorphic  markers  available  to  plant  breeders,  and  to
molecular  biologists  in  general.  The  most  notable  high-throughput  genotyping  (HTG)  system
is  single  nucleotide  polymorphisms  (SNPs),  which  have  been  used  intensively  in  quantitative
trait  locus  (QTL;  see  Glossary )  discovery.  More  than  10  000  QTLs  using  different  marker
systems  have  been  reported  in  more  than  120  studies  covering  12  plant  species  [1]  that  aimed
to  improve  quantitative  traits  of  economic  importance.  Initially,  molecular  markers  were  inte-
grated  in  traditional  phenotypic  selection  (PS)  by  applying  marker-assisted  selection  (MAS).
For  simple  traits,  MAS  comprises  selecting  individuals  with  QTL-associated  markers  that  have
major  effects;  markers  not  signi ﬁcantly  associated  with  a  trait  are  not  used.  However,  attempts
to  improve  complex  quantitative  traits  by  using  QTL-associated  marker  detection  have  been
unsuccessful  due  to  the  difﬁculty  of  ﬁnding  the  same  QTL  across  multiple  environments  (due  to
QTL  /C2  environment  interactions)  or  in  different  genetic  backgrounds  [2].
Linkage  analysis  for  QTL  mapping  is  done  on  biparental  populations,  but  has  low  power  for
detecting  marker –trait  association  due  to  chromosomes  with  low  recombination  rates.  There-
fore,  association  mapping  started  during  the  early  2000s  with  the  objective  of  overcoming  the
low  power  of  linkage  analysis,  thus  facilitating  the  detection  of  marker –trait  associations  inTrends
In  recent  years,  the  global  climate  has
changed,  resulting  in  drastic  ﬂuctua-
tions  in  rainfall  patterns  and  increasing
temperature.  Sudden  climate  changes
can  cause  signi ﬁcant  economic  losses
to  countries  worldwide.
Genetic  improvement  of  several  eco-
nomically  important  crops  during  the
20th  century  using  phenotypic,  pedi-
gree,  and  performance  data  was  very
successful.  However,  signs  of  grain
yield  stagnation  in  some  crops,  espe-
cially  in  drought-stressed  and  semi-
arid  regions,  are  evident.
Genomic  selection  offers  the  opportu-
nity  to  increase  grain  production  in  less
time.  International  Maize  and  Wheat
Improvement  Center  (CIMMYT)  maize
breeding  research  in  Sub-Saharan
Africa,  India,  and  Mexico  has  shown
that  genomic  selection  can  reduce  the
breeding  interval  cycle  to  at  least  half
the  conventional  time  and  produces
lines  that,  in  hybrid  combinations,  sig-
niﬁcantly  increase  grain  yield  perfor-
mance  over  that  of  commercial
checks.
Public  and  private  investment  in  crop
genomic  selection  research  should
increase  to  successfully  develop  in  less
time  germplasm  that  is  adapted  to
sudden  climate  change.
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2017.08.011  961
©  2017  Elsevier  Ltd.  All  rights  reserved.
nonbiparental  populations  and  ﬁne-mapping  chromosome  segments  with  high  recombination
rates.  However,  the  main  problem  of  ﬁne-association  mapping  is  the  low  power  for  detecting
rare  variants  that  may  be  associated  with  economically  important  traits  [2].  Thus,  the  challenge
of  association  mapping  and  QTL  detection  resides  in  identifying  and  quantifying  rare  QTLs  with
small  effects  for  economically  important  traits  that  are  highly  affected  by  the  environment.
However,  because  the  cost  of  SNP  assays  has  dramatically  decreased,  the  possibility  of  using
high-density  SNP  arrays  (tens  of  thousands)  has  resulted  in  the  development  of  statistical
models  to  predict  marker –trait  association  accurately,  depending  on  the  genetic  architecture  of
the  predicted  trait.
Contrary  to  QTL  and  association  mapping,  GS  uses  all  molecular  markers  for  GP  of  the
performance  of  the  candidates  for  selection.  Therefore,  the  aim  of  GS  is  to  predict  breeding
and/or  genetic  values.  GS  combines  molecular  and  phenotypic  data  in  a  training  population
(TRN)  to  obtain  the  genomic  estimated  breeding  values  (GEBVs ’)  of  individuals  in  a  testing
population  (TST)  that  have  been  genotyped  but  not  phenotyped  [3].  Figure  1A  depicts  the  two
basic  populations  in  a  GS  program:  the  TRN  data,  whose  phenotype  and  genotype  are  known,
and  the  TST  data,  whose  genetic  values  are  to  be  predicted.  GS  is  used  in  place  of  phenotyping
for  a  few  selection  cycles.  The  main  advantages  of  GS  over  phenotype-based  selection  in
breeding  are  that  it  reduces  the  cost  per  cycle  and  the  time  required  for  variety  development.  In
terms  of  cost  reduction  in  maize  breeding,  the  breeder  can  testcross  50%  of  all  available  lines,
evaluating  them  in  ﬁrst-stage  multi-locational  trials,  and  can  then  use  the  phenotypic  data  to
predict  the  remaining  50%  by  GS.  Figure  1B  shows  the  advantage  of  GS  over  PS  for:  (i)
reducing  costs,  up  to  50%;  and  (ii)  saving  time  by  selecting  lines  directly  for  stage  II  instead
going  through  stage  I  (used  in  PS).  This  signi ﬁcantly  reduces  the  cost  of  testcross  formation  and
evaluation  at  each  stage  of  multi-location  evaluations.  The  time  efﬁciency  over  PS  could  come
from  the  second  cycle  of  selection,  which  uses  the  TRN  from  the  previous  cycle  to  predict  the
new  doubled  haploid  (DH)  lines,  thus  excluding  testcross  formation  and  ﬁrst-stage  multi-
location  evaluation  trials.  Based  on  GS,  the  best  lines  could  go  directly  to  the  second  stage
of  multi-location  evaluations.
GS  predicts  the  breeding  values  (BVs)  of  the  candidates  for  selection.  BVs  have  two  compo-
nents:  the  parental  average  (the  mean  BV  of  both  parents)  and  the  deviation  of  progeny
performance  from  this  average  that  is  due  to  Mendelian  sampling.  In  conventional  breeding,  the
parental  average  is  quanti ﬁed  by  pedigree  information  (if  the  genealogy  is  available),  from  which
a  relationship  matrix  A  between  the  individuals  can  be  derived.  Mendelian  sampling  assesses
within-family  variation  that  is  quanti ﬁed  by  testing  the  progeny  in  multienvironment  ﬁeld  trials.
GS  takes  advantage  of  dense  markers  to  quantify  Mendelian  sampling,  thus  avoiding  the  need
to  extensively  phenotype  the  progeny.  This  saves  time  by  reducing  the  cycle  length,  while
enhancing  the  expected  genetic  gain  and  the  selection  response  per  unit  time;  it  also  uses
less  resources  compared  with  extensive  phenotyping.  GS  has  the  potential  to  quickly  improve
complex  traits  with  low  heritability  as  well  as  to  signi ﬁcantly  reduce  the  cost  of  line  and  hybrid
development.  GS  can  also  be  used  for  simple  traits  with  higher  heritability  than  complex  traits,
for  which  high  GP  accuracy  is  expected.  The  application  of  GS  in  plant  breeding  could  be
limited  by  two  main  factors:  (i)  genotyping  costs;  and  (ii)  unclear  guidelines  as  to  where  GS  can
be  efﬁciently  applied  in  a  breeding  program.
GS  and  GP  have  been  applied  using  two  different  approaches.  One  focuses  on  predicting
additive  effects  in  early  generations  of  a  breeding  program  (F2:3)  to  achieve  a  rapid  selection
cycle  with  a  short  interval  (i.e.,  GS  at  the  F2level  of  a  biparental  cross).  In  this  case,  researchers
are  interested  in  predicting  the  additive  values  (BVs)  rather  than  the  total  genetic  value;
therefore,  additive  linear  models  that  summarize  the  effects  of  the  markers  are  sufﬁcient.
The  other  approach  predicts  the  complete  genetic  values  of  individuals  considering  both1International  Maize  and  Wheat
Improvement  Center  (CIMMYT),  Apdo.
Postal  6-641,  06600,  Mexico  City,
Mexico
2Colegio  de  Postgraduados,
Montecillo,  Texcoco,  56230,  Edo.  de
Mexico,  Mexico
3Universidad  de  Quintana  Roo,
Quintana  Roo,  77019,  Mexico
4Facultad  de  Telemática,  Universidad
de  Colima,  Colima,  28040,  Mexico
5Department  of  Agronomy  and
Horticulture,  University  of  Nebraska-
Lincoln,  321  Keim  Hall,  Lincoln,  NE
68503-0915,  USA
6Department  of  Epidemiology  &
Biostatistics,  Michigan  State
University,  909  Fee  Road,  Room
B601,  East  Lansing,  MI  48824,  USA
7International  Crops  Research  Institute
for  the  Semi-Arid  Tropics  (ICRISAT),
Patancheru  502  324,  Telangana,  India
8International  Rice  Research  Institute,
Los  Baños,  4030,  Philippines
*Correspondence:
j.crossa@cgiar.org  (J.  Crossa)  and
R.K.Varshney@cgiar.org(R.K. Varshney).
962  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
Glossary
Breeding  value  (BV):  the  worth  of
an  individual  as  estimated  by  the
average  performance  of  its
progenies.Array: high-throughput  genotyping
platform  containing  either  genome-
wide  SNPs  (SNP  array)  or  coding
variants  (exome  array).
Genetic  gain:  the  amount  of
increase  in  performance  that  is
achieved  through  genetic
improvement  programs  between
consecutive  selection  cycles.
Genomic  estimated  breeding
value  (GEBV):  breeding  value  of  an
individual  calculated  using  genome-
wide  marker  data  to  capture  small
genetic  effects  dispersed  over  the
genome.Genomic selection  (GS):  a  type  of
breeding  methodology  that  selects
the  best  candidates  as  parents  for
the  next  selection  cycle  based  on
their  predicted  breeding  values
computed  given:  (i)  their  genotypes;
and  (ii)  the  phenotypes  and
genotypes  of  their  relatives.
Genotyping-by-sequencing  (GBS):
a  highly  multiplex  genotyping  system
that  involves  DNA  digestion  with
enzymes  followed  by  construction  of
a  reduced  representation  library,
which  is  sequenced  using  a  next-
generation  sequencing  platform.
Heterotic  group:  a  group  of
genotypes,  irrespective  of  their
genetic  relatedness,  that  display
similar  combining  ability  and  heterotic
response  when  crossed  with
genotypes  from  other  genetically
distinct  germplasm  of  the  same
group.Linkage disequilibrium  (LD):  the
nonrandom  associations  of  alleles  at
two  loci  that  can  occur  even  if  the
two  genes  are  unlinked.
Marker-assisted  selection  (MAS):
a  process  for  selecting  individuals
based  on  trait-linked  markers.
Marker-assisted  recurrent
selection  (MARS):  a  type  of  MAS
that  allows  the  simultaneous
identi ﬁcation  of  associated  alleles  as
well  as  the  accumulation  of  superior
alleles  from  both  parents.
Quantitative  trait  locus  (QTL):  a
gene  (DNA  section  also  called  locus)
that  is  associated  with  variation  in  a
phenotype.
(A)
Phenotype
TRN
popula/g415on
TST
popula/g415onGenotype
with genome-
wide markersDevelop a
predic/g415on
equa/g415on
Predict breeding
values for
individuals in TSTGenotype
with genome-
wide markersTRN and TST popula/g415ons in genomic selec/g415on
(B)
Phenotypic selec/g415on Phenotypic + genomic selec/g415on Year
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
BBBBBB
AAAAAA A x B A x B
F1 - inducer F1 - inducer
Haploids Haploids
Haploids HaploidsDH per se – seed increase
DH per se – seed increaseDH per se – seed increase + genotyping
DH per se – seed
increase + genotypingDH for TCs – stage I
DH for TCs – stage I DH for TCs – stage II GS modelGS model50% in cold room 50% DH for TCs – stage I
First stage mul/g415loca/g415on
evalua/g415on of TCsFirst stage mul/g415loca/g415on
evalua/g415on of TCs
First-stage mul/g415loca/g415on
evalua/g415on of TCsSecond-stage mul/g415loca/g415on 
evalua/g415on of TCsLine C x line D Line C x line D
F1 - inducer F1 - inducerSeason
Figure  1.  Populations  Used  in  Genomic  Selection  and  a  Scheme  of  Phenotypic  and  Genomic  Selection  in
Maize  Breeding.  (A)  Genomic  selection  (GS)  requires  a  training  population  (TRN)  that  has  been  genotyped  and
phenotyped  and  a  testing  population  (TST)  that  has  only  been  genotyped  but  not  phenotyped.  (B)  Reduction  of  cycle
length  through  GS  in  maize  using  doubled  haploids  (DH)  crossed  with  a  tester  (TC).
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  963
additive  and  nonadditive  (dominance  and  epistasis)  effects,  thereby  estimating  the  perfor-
mance  (commercial  value)  of  the  cultivars.  Genetic  values  of  lines  are  predicted  for  some
environments  using  an  incomplete  (sparse)  multienvironment  testing  scheme.
Several  genetic  and  statistical  factors  complicate  the  practical  application  of  GP.  Genetic
difﬁculties  arise  from  the  size  and  diversity  of  the  TRN  population  and  the  heritability  of  the  traits
to  be  predicted.  Statistical  challenges  are  related  to  the  high  dimensionality  of  marker  data,
where  the  number  of  markers  (p)  is  much  larger  than  the  number  of  observations  (n)  (p>>n)  and
the  multicolinearity  among  markers  (adjacent  markers  are  highly  correlated).  For  more  details,
see  ‘The  complexity  of  genomic  selection  and  prediction ’  and  ‘Solution  to  an  inverse  problem ’
in  the  supplementary  information  online.
Here,  we  review  advances  in  GS  and  GP  theory  in  light  of  the  above  considerations  and
evaluate  recent  examples  from  GP  applied  to  cereal  and  legume  breeding  programs.  We
describe  the  evolution  and  main  features  of  GP  models,  including  complexities,  strengths,  and
weaknesses.  We  then  illustrate  the  use  of  GP  using  examples  from  crop  breeding  programs
with  genomic  G  /C2  E  interactions ,  as  well  as  results  of  genetic  gains  from  rapid  cycle  GS  in
maize.  We  also  speculate  on  the  prospects  for  GS  and  GP  in  plant  breeding.  Most  of  the  results
presented  in  this  review  include  studies  performed  on  maize  and  wheat  from  the  International
Maize  and  Wheat  Improvement  Center  (CIMMYT),  as  well  as  on  chickpea  from  the  International
Crops  Research  Institute  for  the  Semi-Arid  Tropics  (ICRISAT)
Genomic-Enabled  Prediction  Models  and  Applications:  Coping  with
Complexity
The  complexity  of  applying  GP  in  breeding  occurs  at  different  levels  and  is  inﬂuenced  by  several
factors.  When  a  trait  is  affected  by  a  large  number  of  loci,  GP  accuracy  depends  on  several
genetic  factors:  (i)  the  size  and  genetic  diversity  of  the  TRN  population  and  its  relationship  with
the  TST  population  [4];  that  is,  whether  the  cultivars  in  the  TRN  are  relatives  (close  and/or
distant)  of  cultivars  in  the  TST  set;  (ii)  the  heritability  of  the  trait(s)  under  selection  [complex  traits
with  low  heritability  and  small  marker  effects  are  suitable  for  GS  and  GP,  whereas  less  complex
traits  (with  high  heritability)  can  be  predicted  by  a  few  markers  with  relatively  large  effects);  and
(iii)  for  complex  traits  with  large  numbers  of  markers  that  are  not  in  linkage  disequilibrium  (LD)
with  the  QTL,  GP  accuracy  is  lower  [5]  and  increases  when  the  heritability  and  TRN  size
increase.  Studies  have  shown  the  importance  of  selecting  an  appropriate  TRN  population  that
optimizes  the  accuracy  of  the  predictions  of  the  nonphenotyped  cultivars  in  the  TST  set  [6].
Depending  on  the  trait,  the  increase  in  GP  accuracy  reaches  a  plateau  as  the  population  size
increases.  A  similar  trend  was  found  for  the  number  of  markers  [7,8].
One  important  genetic-statistical  complexity  of  GP  models  arises  when  predicting  nonphe-
notyped  individuals  in  speci ﬁc  environments  (site –year  combinations)  by  incorporating  G  /C2  E
interactions  into  the  statistical  models.  Equally  important  is  the  genomic  complexity  related  to
G  /C2  E  interactions  for  multi-traits;  these  interactions  create  trait  and  environmental  structures
that  should  be  dealt  with  by  using  statistical-genetic  models  that  exploit  multi-trait,  multi-
environment  variance-covariance  and  genetic  correlations  between  environments,  between
traits,  and  between  traits  and  environments,  simultaneously.  Untangling  the  complexity  of
multi-trait  genomics  and  multiple  environments  requires  a  theoretical  framework  that  accounts
for  these  complex  interactions  [9]  (see  ‘Bayesian  multi-trait  multienvironment  genomic  model
for  normal  phenotypes ’  in  the  supplementary  information  online).  Interestingly,  the  use  of  GP  to
improve  disease  resistance  has  been  challenging  in  wheat  for  two  reasons:  (i)  selection  for
major  resistance  genes  can  be  ephemeral  due  to  changes  in  pathogen  races;  and  (ii)  breeding
for  minor  resistance  genes  with  small  effects  throughout  GS  (which  provides  durable  resis-
tance)  may  face  the  usual  complexities  encountered  in  GS  [10].
964  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
Another  level  of  complexity  occurs  in  GS  statistical  prediction  models  because  the  number  of
markers  (p)  is  larger  than  the  population  size  (n)  and  the  predictors  (markers)  are  highly
correlated.  This  situation  results  in  a  matrix  of  predictors  that  is  rank  deﬁcient,  making  it
impossible  to  compute  least-square  estimates  for  marker  effects.  The  complexity  arises  from
factors  such  as  the  course  of  dimensionality  [11];  that  is,  under  models  with  p>>n,  which  are
not  likelihood  identi ﬁed  and  are  prone  to  over ﬁtting,  spurious  features  and  data  structures  may
be  captured  (see  ‘The  complexity  of  genomic  selection  and  prediction ’  and  ‘Solution  to  an
inverse  problem ’  in  the  supplementary  information  online).  Solutions  to  these  problems  include
the  use  of:  (i)  penalized  regression;  (ii)  variable  selection;  and  (iii)  dimensionality  reduction  (e.g.,
principal  components),  such  that  a  new  set  of  predictors  that  are  not  correlated  is  generated
from  the  original  one  (markers),  thus  allowing  the  use  of  univariate  distributions  and  decreasing
the  computation  time  of  the  estimates  and  the  prediction  [12].  A  fourth  solution  is  to  use
statistical  models  that  assess  GP  complexities  and  high-density  marker  platforms  with  G  /C2  E
interactions,  thereby  adding  power  to  the  GP  models  (see  the  next  section).
GP  models  based  on  basic  quantitative  genetics  describe  the  phenotypic  response  as  the  sum
of  a  genetic  value  (linear  additive  models)  and  a  residual  value.  A  large  body  of  GP  research  has
focused  on  developing  efﬁcient  parametric  and  nonparametric  statistical  and  computational
models  with  increased  accuracy  for  predicting  nonphenotyped  genotypes  [13].  In  general,
these  theoretical  studies  show  reasonably  good  prediction  accuracies  for  complex  traits  such
as  grain  yield  and  other  traits  evaluated  by  means  of  independent  random  cross-validation  data
partitioning.  In  contrast  to  the  widespread  use  of  GP  to  predict  the  performance  of  one  trait  in
the  TST  populations  using  data  from  the  same  trait  observed  in  the  TRN  populations,  the
complexity  of  extending  this  to  multi-trait  GP  indices  has  not  received  much  attention,  except
for  a  method  proposed  by  Cerón-Rojas  et  al.  [14]  that  is  based  on  the  multi-trait  Genomic  Best
Linear  Unbiased  Estimator  (GBLUP)  selection  index,  which  worked  well  when  applied  to
simulated  and  real  data  sets.
With  advances  in  GS  and  GP,  data  volumes  and  complexity  have  increased  dramatically,
leading  to  novel  interdisciplinary  research  efforts  to  integrate  computer  science,  machine
learning,  mathematics,  physics,  statistics,  genetics  and  quantitative  genetics,  and  bioinfor-
matics.  Such  work  has  emerged  as  a  new  ﬁeld  of  research  (commonly  known  as  ‘data  science ’
or  data-driven  science)  that  aims  to  unify  statistics  with  data  analysis,  data  mining,  and  so  on.
The  interdisciplinary  researchers  in  data  science  focus  on  computing  more  accurate  predictive
values  by  using  statistical  models  or  machine-learning  models  (R.  McDowell,  MSc  thesis,  Iowa
State  University,  2016).  Neural  network  methods  are  common  prediction  tools  in  machine
learning.  Neural  networks  comprise  layers  of  interconnected  neurons,  where  the  output  of  each
neuron  is  expressed  as  the  sum  of  a  certain  number  of  inputs  to  a  neuron  located  in  a  speci ﬁc
network  layer,  with  a  weight  plus  a  bias;  the  sum  of  all  inputs  is  weighted  by  an  activation
function.
When  neural  networks  are  applied  to  GP,  the  input  layer  is  each  marker  with  one  neuron  per
marker;  each  of  the  neurons  (markers)  in  the  input  layer  is  connected  to  all  the  neurons  in  the
ﬁrst  hidden  layer,  and  these  are  connected  to  all  neurons  in  the  second  hidden  layer,  and  so  on,
up  to  the  output  layer,  which  is  one  hidden  neuron  layer  with  the  prediction  of  each  of  the
phenotypes.  Recent  developments  in  neural  networks  and  speedier  computer  processing  have
allowed  the  addition  of  new  layers  to  the  neural  network  (deep  machine  learning)  to  capture
small  cryptic  correlations  between  inputs  [15],  which  in  GP  are  interactions  between  markers.
Initial  applications  of  machine-learning  and  neural  networks  in  GP  were  demonstrated  by
Gianola  et  al.  [16,17] ,  González-Camacho  et  al.  [18,19] ,  Pérez-Rodríguez  et  al.  [20],  Ornella
et  al.,  [21],  and  González-Recio  et  al.  [22].  Recent  results  for  deep  machine  learning  applied  to
GP  can  be  found  elsewhere  (R.  McDowell,  MSc  thesis,  Iowa  State  University,  2016).
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  965
The  Accuracy  of  GP  Models,  and  Genetic  Gains  Achieved  by  GS
The  GP  models  assess  different  prediction  problems  that  attempt  to  mimic  what  happens  when
predictions  are  made  in  real  situations.  Different  random  cross-validation  schemes  have  been
designed  to  simulate  the  prediction  problems  that  researchers  may  face  when  performing  GS.
There  are  four  basic  scenarios  arising  from  combinations  of  tested  (observed)  lines  (LT),
untested  (unobserved)  lines  (LU)  with  tested  (observed)  environment  (ET),  or  untested  (unob-
served)  environments  (EU).  Predicting  newly  developed  lines  (or  cultivars)  in  environments
where  they  were  not  tested  is  a  case  of  LU-ET  (random  cross-validation  1,  CV1).  Another
problem  is  to  predict  lines  in  some  environments  but  not  in  others;  this  is  LT-ET  (random  cross-
validation  2,  CV2),  which  attempts  to  mimic  one  of  the  objectives  of  GP:  sparse  testing.  Another
problem  comprises  predicting  lines  in  untested  environments;  that  is,  LT-EU  (random  cross-
validation  0,  CV0).  Finally,  there  is  the  problem  of  predicting  lines  never  observed  in  never-
observed  environments,  LU-EU  (cross-validation  00,  CV00)  [23 –27].
Simulation  and  empirical  results  obtained  by  random  cross-validation  suggest  that  GS  enhan-
ces  genetic  gains  by  shortening  the  breeding  cycle  (rapid  selection  cycle)  and/or  enhancing
testing  efﬁciency  in  ﬁeld  evaluations  [3,28 –31].  Results  of  using  random  cross-validation  on
maize  and  wheat  breeding  data  indicate  that  GS  can  signi ﬁcantly  enhance  prediction  accuracy
related  to  pedigree  and  MAS  for  low-heritability  traits  [13,18 –20,32 –43].  Results  of  applying  GS
in  maize  and  wheat  breeding  indicate  its  effectiveness  in  selection  [44 –48].
Breeding  programs  worldwide  have  been  studying  and  applying  GS  and  GP  in  several  crops.  In
parallel,  extensive  research  has  resulted  in  novel  statistical  methods  that  incorporate  pedigree,
genomic,  and  environmental  covariates  (e.g.,  weather  data)  into  statistical-genetic  prediction
models.  GBLUP  models  [49,50]  are  widely  used  in  GP,  and  the  extension  of  GBLUP  for
incorporating  G  /C2  E  interactions  has  improved  the  accuracy  of  predicting  unobserved  cultivars
in  environments  [23,24,51 –56].  New  models  for  assessing  the  GP  accuracy  of  discrete
response  variables  (e.g.,  ordinal  disease  data,  such  as  rates,  count  data,  and  so  on)  were
proposed  [57 –61]  together  with  Bayesian  genomic  models  for  analyzing  multiple  traits  and
multiple  environments.  A  computationally  efﬁcient  Markov  Chain  Monte  Carlo  (MCMC)  method
that  produces  full  conditional  distributions  of  the  parameters,  leading  to  exact  Gibbs  sampling
for  the  posterior  distribution,  has  also  been  developed  [9].  Results  from  simulated  and  (two)
extensive  data  sets  show  that,  when  the  correlation  between  the  traits  is  high,  a  proposed
model  with  an  unstructured  covariance  matrix  is  preferred  over  the  diagonal  and  standard
methods  to  help  improve  the  prediction  accuracy  for  grain  yield.  However,  when  correlations
are  low,  it  is  enough  to  use  the  standard  model  [9].
Depending  on  the  complexity  of  the  trait  and  the  prediction  scenario,  more  sophisticated
models  result  in  moderate-to-high  gains  in  prediction  accuracy.  In  several  studies,  complex
models  increased  prediction  accuracy  by  >10%  at  no  additional  cost.  The  use  of  simple
models  may  miss  important  data  features  and  cause  losses  of  prediction  accuracy  for  complex
traits,  where  nonlinear  models  usually  give  signi ﬁcantly  higher  prediction  accuracy  than  linear
models  [20,36,55,56] .  One  of  the  ﬁrst  assessments  of  GP  in  wheat  breeding  was  performed  on
a  collection  of  599  wheat  lines  evaluated  in  four  environments  using  pedigree  and  genomic
information  with  two  different  models  [34].  The  models  were  the  standard  GBLUP  with  the  linear
genomic  matrix  G  and  a  nonparametric  model,  Reproducing  Kernel  Hilbert  Spaces  (RKHS)
regression  with  a  nonlinear  genomic  matrix,  the  Gaussian  kernel  (GK)  [62].  The  most  complex
model,  RKHS  using  a  GK  nonlinear  kernel,  including  pedigree  and  marker  information,  gave  the
highest  prediction  accuracy,  ranging  from  15%  to  36%,  with  respect  to  the  pedigree  model
alone.  The  GP  model  RKHS  with  GK,  pedigree,  and  markers  has  been  used  for  predicting
resistance  to  leaf,  stem,  and  stripe  rust,  septoria,  tan  spot,  and  Stagonospora  nodorum  blotch
966  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
in  wheat;  compared  with  standard  least-squares  multiple  regression  methods,  RKHS  gave
increases  in  accuracy  of  42%  and  48%  in  the  two  reported  studies  [63,64] ,  respectively.
Based  on  the  encouraging  results  obtained  in  some  major  cereals,  preliminary  steps  have  been
taken  to  deploy  GS  to  develop  superior  lines  more  quickly  and  enhance  the  rate  of  genetic  gain
in  a  few  legume  crops,  such  as  pea,  soybean,  chickpea,  groundnut,  and  pigeon  pea  [65].  The
recent  availability  of  cost-effective,  high-throughput  sequencing  has  facilitated  the  develop-
ment  of  large-scale  genomic  resources  in  most  legumes.  Soybean  was  the  ﬁrst  legume  crop
where  GS  was  deployed  for  improving  yield  and  agronomic  traits  using  genotyping-by-
sequencing  (GBS)  in  a  breeding  program  [25].  To  assess  the  utility  of  GS  in  soybean  breeding
programs  and  understand  the  effect  of  marker  selection  and  genotype  imputation,  prediction
accuracies  were  calculated  for  two  genomic  prediction  models,  namely,  the  standard  GBLUP
model  with  additive  effects  and  an  extended  GBLUP  with  additive-by-additive  epistasis.  High
prediction  accuracy  (0.64)  indicated  the  potential  of  using  GS  to  improve  grain  yield  [25].
In  the  case  of  chickpea,  a  collection  of  320  elite  breeding  lines  was  genotyped  using  Diversity
Array  technology  (DArTseq)  and  phenotyped  for  yield-related  traits  in  two  environments  with
two  different  treatments  (i.e.,  rainfed  and  irrigated)  in  two  different  seasons  [65,66] .  Various
statistical  models  (RR-BLUP,  Kinship  GAUSS,  Bayes  Cp,  Bayes  B,  Baysian  LASSO,  and
random  forest  regression  or  RFR)  resulted  in  high  prediction  accuracies  for  the  traits  of  interest;
however,  not  much  variation  in  prediction  accuracy  among  the  different  models  was  observed
[65,66] .  When  population  structure  was  included  in  the  model,  prediction  accuracies  improved
slightly  for  days  to  maturity  (DM),  days  to  ﬂowering  (DF),  and  seed  dry  weight  (SDW),  but  not  for
seed  yield  (SY).
In  general,  early  statistical  models  developed  for  GP  in  animal  breeding  were  based  on  single-
environment  assessments.  However,  in  plant  breeding,  G  /C2  E  interactions  are  of  paramount
importance.  Just  as  G  /C2  E  interactions  are  a  fundamental  challenge  in  plant  breeding,  they  are
also  increasingly  recognized  as  a  major  complexity  in  GP  models.
GP  Incorporating  Genotype  /C2  Environment  Interaction
Including  high-density  marker  platforms  with  G  /C2  E  interactions  increases  the  accuracy  of  GP
models;  this  has  been  extensively  studied  in  bread  wheat,  maize,  and  legumes  [23 –
27,55,56,67] .  In  all  GP  models  that  incorporate  G  /C2  E  interactions,  accuracy  with  respect
to  single-environment  analyses  increased  10–40%  on  average  in  all  three  crop  species.  The
main  models  used  to  assess  GP  accuracy  by  incorporating  G  /C2  E  interactions  and  their
application  to  real  data  are  described  below.
Multienvironment  trials  for  assessing  G  /C2  E  interactions  have  an  important  role  in  plant  breeding
for  selecting  high-performing  and  stable  lines  across  environments.  Burgueño  et  al.  [23]  were
the  ﬁrst  to  use  marker-  and  pedigree-based  GBLUP  models  for  assessing  G  /C2  E  interactions
under  genomic  prediction,  while  Heslot  et  al.  [52]  incorporated  crop-modeling  data  to  study
genomic  G  /C2  E  interactions.  A  reaction  norm  model,  where  the  main  and  interaction  effects  of
markers  and  environmental  covariates  are  introduced  using  high-dimensional  random  vari-
ance-covariance  structures  of  markers  and  environmental  covariates,  was  developed  by
Jarquín  et  al.  [24]  as  an  extension  of  the  well-known  GBLUP  model.
The  baseline  model  for  phenotypes  evaluated  in  different  environments  (yij)  can  be  described
using  Equation  1:
yij¼  m  þ  Eiþ  Ljþ  ELijþ  eij ½1/C138;
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  967
where  m  is  the  overall  mean,  Ei(i=1,  .  .  .  ,I)  is  the  random  effect  of  the  ithenvironment,  Ljis  the
random  effect  of  the  jthline  (j=1,  .  .  .  ,J),  ELijis  the  interaction  between  the  ithenvironment  and
the  jthline,  and  eijis  the  random  error  term.  The  assumptions  are  as  follows:  Ei/C24iidN  0;  s2
E/C0  /C1
,
Lj/C24iidN  0;  s2
L/C0  /C1
,  ELij/C24iidN  0;  s2
EL/C0  /C1
,  and  eij/C24iidN  0;  s2
e/C0  /C1
,  with  N(.,.)  denoting  a  normal  distribution,  and
‘iid’  standing  for  independent  and  identically  distributed.  However,  when  the  number  of
environments  is  small,  it  may  be  better  to  assume  it  as  a  ﬁxed  effect.
Markers  can  be  introduced  in  Equation  1  such  that  the  effect  of  the  line  (Lj)  can  be  replaced  by  gj
expressed  as  a  linear  regression  on  marker  covariates  (it  approximates  the  genetic  value  of  the
jthline).  The  vector  containing  the  ‘genomic  values ’  is  g  /C24  N  0;  Gs2
g/C16  /C17
,  where  s2
gis  the  genomic
variance,  and  G  is  a  genomic  relationship  matrix.  Also,  the  effect  of  the  line  (Lj)  can  be  replaced
by  aj,  with  a  /C24  N  0;  As2
a/C0  /C1
,  where  A  is  the  numerical  additive  relationship  matrix  derived  from
pedigree,  and  s2
ais  the  additive  variance.  The  interaction  covariance  matrix  is  the  Hadamard
product  of  two  covariance  structures,  one  describing  relationships  between  lines  based  on
genetic  information  (pedigree  or  genomic)  and  the  other  relating  environments  by  means  of
environmental  covariates.  When  the  environmental  effect  is  assumed  as  ﬁxed,  the  interaction
term  is  the  Hadamard  product  of  the  ﬁxed  effect  of  environments  and  the  covariance  matrix  of
lines  that  was  built  with  the  genetic  information.  When  environmental  covariables  are  used,  the
named  reaction  norm  is  justi ﬁed  because  the  genotypic  effect  is  a  reaction  to  those  environ-
mental  covariables,  whereas,  when  environmental  covariables  are  not  used,  the  reaction  norm
models  have  unknown  environmental  deviations.
This  reaction  norm  model  [24]  has  been  applied  successfully  using  pedigree  and  molecular
markers  in  multienvironments  adding  environmental  covariates,  for  example,  in  cotton  trials
with  environmental  covariates  [68],  in  GP  of  extensive  wheat  gene  bank  accessions  [69],  in  GP
of  Fe  and  Zn  in  wheat  grain  [70],  in  GP  of  bread  wheat  lines  in  sites  located  in  diverse
agroecological  zones  [27,25] ,  in  GP  prediction  of  wheat  lines  evaluated  in  Mexico  and  predicted
in  locations  in  South  Asia  [71],  and  in  GP  of  extensive  ﬁeld  trials  in  wheat  on  different  continents
[67].  The  reaction  norm  model  was  also  extended  to  G  /C2  E  interactions  with  maize  and  wheat
disease  ordinal  and  count  data  by  Montesinos-López  et  al.  [57 –60]  (see  ‘Bayesian  genomic-
enabled  prediction  models  for  ordinal  and  count  data  incorporating  genotype  /C2  environment
interaction ’  in  the  supplementary  information  online).  The  increase  in  GP  accuracy  of  the
reaction  norm  model  with  G  /C2  E  interactions  was  on  average  7–20%  relative  to  the  prediction
accuracy  of  the  GBLUP  without  including  G  /C2  E  interactions.
In  areas  such  as  Kansas,  USA,  wheat  production  is  impacted  by  yearly  climate  factors,  such  as
extreme  temperatures  and  erratic  precipitation.  Yearly  effects  are  not  repeatable  and  represent
the  dynamic  part  of  the  G  /C2  E  interactions,  whereas  site  effects  represent  the  static  repeatable
component.  The  accuracy  of  predicting  unobserved  historical  sites  in  the  wheat  breeding
program  of  Kansas  State  University  reaches  0.54,  but  unobserved  years  can  be  predicted  with
only  0.17  accuracy  [26].  Results  of  using  the  reaction  norm  model  with  pedigree  and  genomic
information  for  predicting  400 –500  bread  wheat  lines  in  South  Asian  locations  using  approxi-
mately  60  000  lines  trained  in  different  Mexican  environments  indicated  that  GP  is  more
accurate  (/C240.35)  than  PS  for  predicting  unobserved  wheat  lines  in  different  South  Asian
locations  (/C240.20)  [71];  perhaps  this  last  result  is  the  simplest  proof  of  the  concept  that  GP
works  better  than  PS.
GP  Incorporating  Marker  /C2  Environment  Interaction  Models
The  G  /C2  E  interaction  model  described  by  López-Cruz  et  al.  [53]  decomposes  the  marker
effects  into  components  that  are  common  across  environments  (stability)  and  environment-
speci ﬁc  deviations  (interaction)  [see  ‘The  G  /C2  E  (or  M  /C2  E)  model  with  linear  kernel ’  in  the
supplementary  information  online].  This  model  borrows  information  from  across  environments
968  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
while  allowing  marker  effects  to  change  in  each  environment.  It  can  be  implemented  using
shrinkage  methods  as  well  as  variable  selection  methods  and,  thus,  can  be  used  to  identify
genomic  regions  whose  effects  are  stable  across  environments  and  other  regions  that  are
responsible  for  G  /C2  E  interactions  [54].  The  G  /C2  E  interaction  model  of  López-Cruz  et  al.  [53]  is
best  suited  for  the  joint  analysis  of  positively  correlated  environments  and  was  used  to  analyze
three  CIMMYT  wheat  data  sets.  The  prediction  accuracy  of  the  G  /C2  E  interaction  model  was
greater  than  across-environment  or  single-environment  analyses  (5–29%  when  predicting  each
of  the  environments).  Recently,  this  genomic  G  /C2  E  interaction  model  was  used  to  predict
untested  durum  wheat  lines  in  environments,  as  well  as  a  variable  selection  model  to  identify
genomic  regions  whose  effects  are  stable  across  environments  and  others  that  are  environ-
ment  speci ﬁc  [54].
In  the  models  of  Jarquín  et  al.  [24]  and  López-Cruz  et  al.  [53],  the  kernel  used  is  the  linear  kernel
GBLUP.  In  a  new  study,  Cuevas  et  al.  [55]  proposed  a  G  /C2  E  interaction  model  similar  to  that  of
López-Cruz  et  al.  [53]  but  with  a  nonlinear  kernel,  the  Gaussian  kernel  (GK),  which  is  similar  to  that
used  in  the  RKHS  [62]  [see  ‘The  G  /C2  E  model  of  López-Cruz  et  al.  (2015)  with  a  non-linear
Gaussian  kernel  method ’  in  the  supplementary  information  online].  Using  two  extensive  data  sets,
the  authors  found  that,  for  the  wheat  data  sets,  the  GK  gave  prediction  accuracies  up  to  17%
higher  than  the  GBLUP  linear  kernel.  For  the  maize  data  set,  the  GK  was  on  average  5–6%  higher
than  the  GBLUP  linear  kernel.  The  advantage  of  the  GK  over  the  GBLUP  is  that  it  is  a  more  ﬂexible
kernel  that  accounts  for  small  and  complex  marker  main  effects  and  speci ﬁc  interactions.
One  weakness  of  both  G  /C2  E  interaction  models  with  a  linear  [53]  and  nonlinear  kernel  [55]  is
that  positive  correlations  between  environments  are  assumed.  However,  when  the  correlation
between  environments  is  low  or  negative,  these  models  do  not  increase  the  prediction
accuracy  of  environments  with  negligible  or  negative  correlations.  The  strength  of  the  Bayesian
models  with  G  /C2  E  interactions  used  under  the  linear  kernel  GBLUP  or  under  the  nonlinear
Gaussian  kernel  (GK)  is  that  they  overcome  the  limitation  of  the  previous  models  when
associations  between  environments  are  negligible  or  negative,  as  shown  by  Cuevas  et  al.
[56].  These  authors  proposed  considering  the  genetic  effects  uð  Þ  described  by  the  Kronecker
product  of  variance-covariance  matrices  of  genetic  correlations  between  environments  and
genomic  kernels  through  markers  under  two  linear  kernel  methods:  linear  (GBLUP)  and
Gaussian  (GK).  An  extension  includes  the  same  genetic  component  as  the  ﬁrst  model  uð  Þ,
plus  an  extra  residual  genetic  component,  f,  which  captures  random  effects  between  environ-
ments  that  were  not  accounted  for  by  the  random  effects  u  (see  ‘Multienvironment  genoty-
pe  /C2  environment  interaction  model  with  linear  and  nonlinear  kernels ’  in  the  supplementary
information  online).  Results  of  the  analyses  of  ﬁve  data  sets  showed  that:  (i)  G  /C2  E  interaction
models  always  had  signi ﬁcantly  higher  prediction  accuracy  than  single-environment  models;
and  (ii)  the  prediction  accuracy  of  G  /C2  E  models  with  u  and  f  over  the  multienvironment  model
with  only  u  was  higher  85%  of  the  time  with  GBLUP  and  45%  of  the  time  with  GK  across  the
ﬁve  data  sets.  Results  indicated  that  including  the  random  effect  f  was  still  bene ﬁcial  for
increasing  GP  accuracy  after  adjusting  for  the  random  effect  u.  Prediction  accuracy  of  the
G  /C2  E  interaction  model  methods  (GBLUP  or  GK)  increased  up  to  85%  over  the  accuracy  of
the  single-environment  model.
Machine  Learning  for  Genomic  Prediction
In  an  applied  GS  context,  the  focus  should  not  be  on  predicting  all  individuals,  but  rather  on
classifying  individuals  into  upper,  middle,  or  lower  classes,  depending  on  the  trait  under  selection.
Using  classi ﬁers  in  GS  is  attractive  because  they  are  trained  to  maximize  the  probability  of  an
individual  being  a  memberof  the  target  class,  rather  than  searching  for  its  overallperformance  [21].
González-Camacho  et  al.  [18]  used  a  radial  basis  neural  network  on  an  extensive  genomic  maize
data  set  comprising  several  traits  in  different  environments  and  compared  the  results  with  RKHS
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  969
and  with  a  linear  regression  model.  The  accuracy  of  neural  network  methods  was  similar  to  that  of
RKHS  and  slightly  higher  than  that  of  the  linear  regression.
In  a  recent  study,  two  neural  network  classi ﬁers  (a  multilayer  perceptron,  MLP,  and  a  probabi-
listic  neural  network,  PNN)  were  compared  for  predicting  the  probability  of  an  individual
member  of  a  target  phenotypic  class,  using  33  maize  and  wheat  genomic  and  phenotypic
data  sets  [19].  The  authors  focused  on  the  15th  and  30th  percentiles  of  the  upper  and  lower
classes  to  select  the  best  individuals,  as  commonly  done  in  GS  (for  traits  such  as  grain  yield,  the
upper  classes  are  the  target;  for  diseases,  the  focus  is  on  the  lower  classes).  The  criterion  for
assessing  the  prediction  accuracy  of  MLP  and  PNN  was  the  area  under  the  receiver
operating  characteristic  curve  (AUC).  The  parameters  of  both  classi ﬁers  were  estimated
by  optimizing  the  AUC  for  a  speci ﬁc  target  class.  The  PNN  was  found  to  be  more  accurate  than
the  classi ﬁer  MLP  for  assigning  maize  and  wheat  lines  to  the  correct  upper,  middle,  or  lower
class.  Results  for  the  wheat  data  set  with  continuous  traits  split  into  two  and  three  classes
showed  that  the  performance  of  PNN  with  three  classes  was  better  than  PNN  with  two  classes
when  classifying  individuals  into  the  upper  and  lower  (15%  or  30%)  categories.  Depending  on
the  maize  trait –environment  combination,  AUC  for  PNN30%  or  for  PNN15%  upper  trait  (grain
yield)  was  higher  than  the  AUC  of  MLP.  For  the  lower  class,  ﬂowering  (male  and  female)  traits,
PNN15%  and  PNN30%  always  had  better  AUC  than  MLP15%  and  MLP30%  [19].
Genetic  Gains  from  Rapid  Selection  Cycle  GS:  CIMMYT  Maize  Biparental  Populations
The  fundamental  goal  of  using  GS  in  breeding  is  to  achieve  greater  genetic  gains  at  a  lower  cost
and  in  less  time  than  with  conventional  pedigree  breeding.  To  achieve  a  shorter  interval  cycle,  a
favorable  use  of  GS  is  prediction  within  full-sib  families,  because  biparental  populations  have
high  LD  between  marker  alleles  and  trait  alleles  with  no  group  structure.
There  are  few  studies  that  measure  the  genetic  gains  achieved  through  use  of  a  GS-based
rapid  selection  cycle.  The  ﬁrst  study  conﬁrming  the  promise  of  a  rapid  selection  cycle  in  GP  of
biparental  populations,  as  well  as  previous  ﬁndings  from  random  cross-validation  studies,  was
conducted  by  Massman  et  al.  [44]  and  showed  that  GS  improved  maize  genetic  gains  per  unit
of  time.  Genetic  gains  were  also  reported  by  Asoro  et  al.  [45]  in  oat  and  by  Rutkoski  et  al.  [48]  in
wheat,  which  showed  that  GS  and  PS  provided  similar  realized  genetic  gains  per  unit  of  time.
Genetic  gain  studies  comparing  GS  cycles  C0,  C1,  C2,  and  C3with  pedigree  selection  on  eight
CIMMYT  tropical  biparental  maize  populations  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  were  conducted  by
Beyene  et  al.  [47]  under  drought  conditions.  The  authors  showed  that:  (i)  the  average  gain
per  cycle  (across  all  eight  biparental  populations)  from  GS  was  0.086  t/ha  under  managed
drought  conditions;  (ii)  the  average  grain  yield  of  C3-derived  hybrids  was  signi ﬁcantly  higher
than  that  of  hybrids  derived  from  C0;  and  (iii)  three  GS  cycles  can  be  achieved  in  1  year.  The
authors  concluded  that  hybrids  derived  from  C3produced  7.3%  higher  grain  yield  than  those
developed  through  conventional  pedigree  breeding.  By  contrast,  the  average  gain  per  cycle
using  marker-assisted  recurrent  selection  (MARS)  across  ten  populations  was  0.051  t/ha
per  cycle  under  managed  drought  stress.  Extensive  ﬁeld  trials  were  conducted  in  several
managed  drought  environments  in  Sub-Saharan  Africa  to  evaluate  the  grain  yield  performance
of  maize  hybrids  derived  from  GS-based  lines  selected  from  different  populations.  Lines  derived
from  cycle  C3GS  in  hybrid  combination  produced  signi ﬁcantly  higher  average  grain  yield  than
lines  from  C0GS  in  hybrid  combination  (Y.  Beyene,  2017).
Another  example  of  genetic  gains  from  rapid-cycle  GS  on  CIMMYT  maize  is  two  biparental
maize  populations  (F2:3)  from  Asia  (CAP1  and  CAP2)  that  were  developed  and  evaluated  for
testcross  performance  under  drought  and  optimal  conditions  [72].  The  genetic  gains  per  year
for  PS  versus  GS  in  drought  environments  were  0.067  t/ha  versus  0.124  t/ha,  respectively,  for
970  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
CAP1,  and  0.076  t/ha  versus  0.104  t/ha,  respectively,  for  CAP2.  The  corresponding  genetic
gains  per  year  for  PS  versus  GS  in  optimal  environments  were  0.084  t/ha  versus  0.140  t/ha,
respectively,  for  CAP1,  and  0.123  t/ha  versus  0.13  t/ha,  respectively,  for  CAP2.  Results  of  this
study  conﬁrmed  that  GS  of  superior  plant  phenotypes  produced  rapid  genetic  gains  in  drought
tolerance  in  maize.
Genetic  Gains  from  Rapid  Selection  Cycle  GS:  CIMMYT  Multiparental  Populations
Most  GS  results  in  maize  have  been  achieved  by  rapid  cycling  of  biparental  populations
(e.g.,  F2:3segregating  populations  crossed  with  a  tester  from  the  opposite  heterotic  group ).
Five  years  ago,  the  Global  Maize  Program  of  CIMMYT  designed  a  GS  rapid  cycle  of  multi-
parental  crosses.  Fifteen  elite  tropical  maize  lines  were  crossed  in  diallelic  fashion  to  form  cycle
0  (C0),  which  was  genotyped  using  GBS  markers  and  phenotyped  at  two  locations  in  Mexico;
plants  with  the  best  phenotype  were  selected  to  form  the  parents  for  GS  cycle  1  (C1).  The  C1
parents  were  intercrossed  and  the  progeny  genotyped  with  the  same  GBS  markers  used  for
the  C0population  [73].
Two  cycles  per  year  were  completed  and,  at  the  end  of  the  second  year,  seeds  from  cycles  C0,
C1,  C2,  C3,  and  C4were  collected,  assembled,  and  sown  at  two  locations  in  Mexico.  Fifty
entries  per  genomic  cycle  were  sown  at  each  location,  together  with  two  widely  used
commercial  tropical  maize  hybrids.  Average  genomic  grain  yield  gains  reached  0.134  t/ha,
with  C0producing  6.653  t/ha.  Grain  yield  of  C1was  slightly  lower  (6.488),  and  cycles  C2,  C3,
and  C4produced  mean  yields  of  7.022,  6.879,  and  7.126  t/ha,  respectively.  The  realized  grain
yield  from  C1to  C4reached  0.225  t/ha  per  cycle,  which  the  authors  considered  equivalent  to
0.1  t/ha  per  year  over  a  breeding  period  of  4.5  years.  A  slight  decline  in  genetic  diversity  was
detected  at  C4compared  with  C0.
Prospects  for  Enhanced  Use  of  GS  in  Plant  Breeding
To  accelerate  the  deployment  of  GS  in  crop  breeding  while  reducing  the  cost  of  line  and  hybrid
development,  here  we  examine  the  combined  use  of  GS  with  high  throughput  phenotype  (HTP)
for  early-generation  testing  in  plant  breeding.  In  addition,  we  examine  the  application  of  GS  in
germplasm  enhancement  and  prebreeding  using  gene  bank  accessions.
Combining  Multi-Trait  Multienvironment  GS  with  High-Throughput  Phenotyping:  The
CIMMYT  Case
In  modern  agriculture,  high-resolution  cameras  are  used  to  obtain  hundreds  of  reﬂectance  data
measured  at  discrete  narrow  bands  (wavelengths)  to  cover  the  whole  spectrum.  This  informa-
tion  is  used  to  construct  vegetation  indices  (e.g.,  Green  Normalized  Difference  Vegetation  Index
or  NDVI)  to  predict  primary  traits  (e.g.,  grain  yield).  However,  these  indices  use  only  certain
bands  and  are  cultivar  speci ﬁc;  thus,  they  fail  to  capture  considerable  information  or  perform
robustly  for  all  cultivars.  The  advantage  of  this  imaging  technology  is  that  massive  numbers  of
phenotypes  can  be  screened  inexpensively  during  early-generation  testing.
The  main  objective  of  GS  is  to  reduce  phenotyping  costs  by  using  markers  and  accelerate
genetic  gains,  whereas  the  aim  of  HTP  is  to  measure  high-density  phenotypes  in  very  large
numbers  of  individuals  or  breeding  lines  across  time  and  space  using  remote  or  proximal
sensing.  This  can  increase  both  the  accuracy  and  intensity  of  selection  and,  subsequently,  the
selection  response,  while  decreasing  phenotyping  costs.  The  main  idea  of  HTP  is  to  use
secondary  traits  related  to  grain  yield,  disease  resistance,  or  end-use  quality  that  may  be  useful
in  early-generation  testing  of  lines.  A  recent  study  [74]  found  that  the  highest  accuracy  when
predicting  grain  yield  is  achieved  by  the  use  of  broader  selection  of  wavelengths  (see  ‘Predicting
grain  yield  using  canopy  hyperspectral  reﬂectance  in  wheat  breeding  data ’  in  the  supplemen-
tary  information  online).
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  971
Using  HTP  platforms  with  vegetation  indices  as  predictor  traits  in  pedigree  and  GS  models  can
increase  the  prediction  accuracy  for  grain  yield  [75].  Prediction  during  early-generation  testing  is
important  to  enhance  genetic  gains  during  early  stages  of  the  breeding  cycle,  but  GS  is
economically  unfeasible  at  those  stages  due  to  the  large  number  of  plants  in  the  ﬁeld;  thus,
while  assessing  pedigree  relationships  has  the  advantage  of  not  costing  anything,  their  use  fails
to  exploit  Mendelian  sampling,  in  contrast  to  GS.  Therefore,  using  multivariate  pedigree-based
prediction  models  that  incorporate  such  predictor  traits  while  using  an  HTP  platform  offers  a
low-cost  solution  for  predicting  grain  yield  among  and  within  families  in  early-generation  testing,
as  demonstrated  by  Rutkoski  et  al.  [75].  These  authors  found  that  within-environment  sec-
ondary  vegetative  indices  increased  prediction  accuracies  for  grain  yield  by  59%  using  pedigree
relationships  and  by  70%  using  genomic  relationships.  These  results  indicate  that  secondary
traits  measured  by  HTP  and  used  with  pedigree  can  improve  the  prediction  accuracy  of  primary
traits  during  the  early  stages  of  breeding.  Reynolds  and  Langridge  [76]  found  that  HTP
techniques  are  effective  for  evaluating  genetic  resources  for  complex  trait  expression.
HTP  platforms  are  useful  to  measure  secondary  traits  that  are  genetically  correlated  with  grain
yield  and  that  can  be  incorporated  in  multivariate  pedigree  and  genomic  prediction  models,
improving  indirect  selection  for  grain  yield.  Sun  et  al.  [77]  used  a  statistical  model  that  estimated
BVs  of  secondary  traits  together  with  multivariate  pedigree  and  genomic  models;  the  authors
found  a  70%  (on  average)  improvement  in  the  accuracy  of  selection  for  grain  yield,  including
secondary  traits  in  both  TRN  and  TST  populations.
A  recent  study  developed  statistical  models  to  assess  hyperspectral  wavelength  /C2  environ-
ment  interactions  in  HTP,  incorporating  genomic  and  pedigree  G  /C2  E  interactions  [78].
Although  little  GP  accuracy  was  achieved,  important  hyperspectral  wavelength  /C2  environment
interactions  were  observed,  demonstrating  that  GS  coupled  with  HTP  can  be  a  powerful  tool
applied  to  early-generation  testing  of  a  large  number  of  selection  candidates.  The  full  condi-
tional  distributions  for  modeling  the  three-way  trait  /C2  G  /C2  E  interaction  model  of  Montesinos-
López  et  al.  [9]  can  be  adapted  to  include  the  hyperspectral  bands  in  the  functional  regression
approach  recently  described  by  Montesinos-López  et  al.  [74,78] .
Exploring  the  Application  of  GS  to  Gene  Bank  Accessions  for  Germplasm  Enhancement
Although  the  accessions  stored  in  gene  banks  represent  a  rich  resource  for  breeders,  alleles
need  to  be  extracted  from  the  accessions  for  cultivar  development,  which  is  time-consuming
and  expensive  [79,80] .  Lengthy  prebreeding  programs  are  required  to  develop  lines  that
combine  favorable  alleles  from  the  germplasm  bank  with  good  agronomic  performance  and
that  can  be  used  as  parents  in  a  breeding  program.  Based  on  the  simulation  of  various
prebreeding  options,  germplasm  enhancement  breeding  programs  can  start  directly  from
landraces  or  from  landraces  crossed  with  elite  testers  [81].
The  GP  accuracy  of  8416  Mexican  wheat  landrace  accessions  and  2403  Iranian  wheat
landrace  accessions  from  the  CIMMYT  gene  bank  were  examined  by  Crossa  et  al.  [69].
The  authors  measured  two  traits  in  two  environments  and  several  highly  heritable  traits  in  a
single  optimum  environment.  The  GP  accuracy  for  several  traits  (maturity,  quality  traits,  and
grain  yield  and  yield  components)  under  the  different  prediction  scenarios  was  high,  ranging
from  0.5  to  0.7.  In  soybean,  Jarquín  et  al.  [25]  analyzed  the  USDA  soybean  collection  using
different  cross-validation  schemes  and  grouping  factors  (trials,  states,  and  genetic  subpopu-
lations);  results  showed  relatively  high  prediction  accuracies  that  should  help  breeders  to
introgress  useful  genetic  variation  (Box  1).
These  preliminary  results  of  the  accuracy  of  GP  of  gene  bank  accessions  favor  the  idea  of
applying  GS  to  introgress  landrace  accessions  in  elite  germplasm  and  form  gene  pools  and
972  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
populations  suitable  for  prebreeding  and  germplasm  enhancement  programs.  However,
further  research  is  required  in  this  area.
Concluding  Remarks
Many  statistical  methods  have  been  developed  to  predict  unobserved  individuals  in  GS.  In
general,  linear  models  (e.g.,  GBLUP)  and  machine-learning  algorithms  have  been  successful  in
recognizing  complex  patterns  and  making  correct  decisions  based  on  data.  Kernel-based
methods,  such  as  the  RKHS,  have  extensively  delivered  good  genomic  predictions  in  plants.
Several  statistical  models  based  on  the  standard  GBLUP  that  incorporate  G  /C2  E  interactions  in
genomic  and  pedigree  predictions  have  provided  substantial  increases  in  the  accuracy  of
predicting  unobserved  individuals  in  environments.  These  GS  prediction  models  can  help
scientists  in  different  disciplines  to  develop  drought-  and  heat-tolerant  plants  by  exploiting
positive  G  /C2  E  interactions.  Modeling  multi-trait  multi-environment  is  essential  for  improving  the
prediction  accuracy  of  the  performance  of  newly  developed  lines  in  future  years.
The  use  of  statistical  models  in  extensive  hyperspectral  image  technology  for  HTP,  together
with  genomic  and  pedigree  information  in  early-generation  testing,  offers  an  opportunity  to
accelerate  genetic  gains  by  increasing  the  intensity  of  selection.  Deep  machine-learning
methods  using  neural  networking  appear  promising  to  increase  the  accuracy  of  genomic-
enabled  prediction.  Genomic  selection  has  a  clear-cut  advantage  over  pedigree  breeding  and
MAS  to  enhance  genetic  gains  for  complex  traits.  The  appropriate  use  of  genotyping  platforms
combined  with  precise  phenotyping  platforms  will  also  help  enhance  prediction  accuracy  and
accelerate  genetic  gains  by  shortening  the  breeding  cycle.  Further  research  is  required  to
incorporate  GS  with  HTP  as  a  routine  component  in  plant  breeding  programs.
Developing  GP  models  for  gene  bank  accessions  will  be  important  to  access  unexplored
diversity  and  fast-track  useful  portions  into  breeding  programs  (also  see  Outstanding  Ques-
tions).  Currently,  GS  is  the  most-promising  breeding  method  to  speed  the  development  and
release  of  new  genotypes;  therefore,  the  use  of  GS  to  form  gene  pools  and  populations  from
rich  gene  bank  accessions  merits  extensive  and  intensive  study,  especially  given  the  vulnera-
bility  of  elite  lines  and  hybrids  to  severe  climate  change  effects.Box  1.  An  Example  of  GS  Deployment  in  Prebreeding
Results  from  using  a  large  number  of  Mexican  and  Iranian  landraces  stored  in  the  wheat  gene  bank  of  CIMMYT  indicated
that  prediction  accuracies  for  traits  evaluated  in  one  environment  for  TRN20-TST80  design  ranged  from  0.407  to  0.677
for  Mexican  landraces  and  from  0.166  to  0.662  for  Iranian  landraces.  Also,  prediction  accuracies  of  the  20%  core  set
were  similar  to  those  obtained  for  TRN20-TST80,  ranging  from  0.412  to  0.654  for  Mexican  landraces  and  from  0.182  to
0.647  for  Iranian  landraces.  Interestingly,  the  correlations  for  complex  GYSM  traits  were  approximately  0.4  for  both
Mexican  and  Iranian  landraces.  Results  of  correlations  when  incorporating  G  /C2  E  interactions  for  days  to  heading  and
days  to  maturity  for  TRN20-TST80  were  approximately  0.61  for  Mexican  landraces  and  0.60  for  Iranian  landraces.  The
20%  core  set  had  correlations  of  approximately  0.58  for  Mexican  landraces  and  0.50 –0.59  for  Iranian  landraces.
Prediction  accuracies  of  the  10%  and  20%  diversity  and  predictive  core  subsets  were  generally  of  a  magnitude  that
appeared  useful  for  predicting  the  value  of  gene  bank  accessions  and  for  breeding.  The  ﬁrst  application  would  be  to
predict  the  genetic  value  of  all  genotyped  accessions  in  a  gene  bank  and  then  phenotype  only  those  that  have  the
highest  predicted  genetic  values.  Then,  a  breeder  could  begin  prebreeding  following  several  strategies.  For  example,
one  decision  would  be  to  initiate  a  prebreeding  conversion  approach  by  crossing  the  best  accessions  among
themselves  to  improve  the  accessions  per  se  until  they  become  elite.  Another  strategy  could  be  to  start  an  introgression
approach  by  crossing  selected  accessions  to  elite  materials.
Nevertheless,  application  of  GS  for  germplasm  enhancement  will  have  to  be  performed  in  combination  with  standard
introgression  of  exotic  to  elite  germplasm  and,  possibly,  a  series  of  backcrosses  to  the  elite  material.  Extracting  the  best
accessions  directly  from  the  gene  banks  and  forming  productive  gene  pools  may  be  the  ﬁrst  stage  before  reﬁning  the
gene  pools  and  evaluating  them  under  different  environmental  conditions.Outstanding  Questions
How  can  GS  have  an  important  role  in
enhancing  the  rate  of  genetic  gain?
Are  currently  available  GS  models
capable  of  providing  the  most  accu-
rate  predictions?
How  can  GS  accelerate  the  ﬂow  of
favorable  alleles  directly  from  the  gene
bank  to  breeding  programs?
Are  we  ready  to  deploy  GS  in  pre-
breeding  and  germplasm-enhance-
ment  programs?
Is  it  possible  to  combine  GS  and  pedi-
gree  selection  with  HTP  to  accelerate
genetic  gains  and  save  resources
when  developing  lines  during  early-
generation  testing?
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  973
Acknowledgments
The  authors  are  grateful  to  their  colleagues,  collaborators,  and  by  using  ﬁeld  and  lab  technician  from  CIMMYT  and
ICRISAT,  as  well  as  scientists  in  National  Programs  who  collected  the  valuable  data  used  in  the  various  studies.  The
authors  would  like  to  thank  Kevin  Pixley,  Daniel  Gianola,  and  four  anonymous  reviewers  for  their  positive,  careful,  and
detailed  reviews  of  the  manuscript;  their  comments,  editing,  and  suggestions  signi ﬁcantly  improved  the  quality  and
readability  of  the  manuscript.  The  authors  also  thank  Michael  Listman  for  editing  the  revised  version  of  the  manuscript.
Supplemental  Information
Supplemental  information  associated  with  this  article  can  be  found,  in  the  online  version,  at  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.
tplants.2017.08.011 .
References
1.  Bernardo,  R.  (2008)  Molecular  markers  and  selection  for  complex
traits  in  plants:  learning  from  the  last  20  years.  Crop  Sci.  48,
1649 –1664
2.  Bernardo,  R.  (2016)  Bandwagons  I,  too,  have  known.  Theor.
Appl.  Genet.  129,  2323 –2332
3.  Meuwissen,  T.H.E.  et  al.  (2001)  Prediction  of  total  genetic  value
using  genome-wide  dense  marker  maps.  Genetics  157,
1819 –1829
4.  Pszczola,  M.  et  al.  (2012)  Reliability  of  direct  genomic  values  for
animals  with  different  relationships  within  and  to  the  reference
population.  J.  Dairy  Sci.  95,  389 –400
5.  Daetwyler,  H.D.  et  al.  (2010)  The  impact  of  genetic  architecture  on
genome-wide  evaluation  methods.  Genetics  185,  1021 –1031
6.  Isidro,  J.  et  al.  (2015)  Training  set  optimization  under  population
structure  in  genomic  selection.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  2015,  145 –158
7.  Lorenz,  A.J.  et  al.  (2012)  Potential  and  optimization  of  genomic
selection  for  Fusarium  head  blight  resistance  in  six-row  barley.
Crop  Sci.  52,  1609 –1621
8.  Arruda,  M.P.  et  al.  (2015)  Genomic  selection  for  predicting  fusar-
ium  head  blight  resistance  in  a  wheat  breeding  program.  Plant
Genome  8,  1–12
9.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2016)  A  genomic  Bayesian  multi-
trait  and  multi-environment  model.  G3  6,  2725 –2744
10.  Poland,  J.  and  Rutkoski,  J.  (2016)  Advances  and  challenges  in
genomic  selection  for  disease  resistance.  Annu.  Rev.  Phytopa-
thol.  54,  79–98
11.  Bellman,  R.E.  (1961)  Adaptive  Control  Processes:  A  Guided  Tour,
Princeton  University  Press
12.  Cuevas,  J.  et  al.  (2014)  Bayesian  genomic-enabled  prediction  as
an  inverse  problem.  G3  4,  1191 –2001
13.  de  los  Campos,  G.  et  al.  (2012)  Whole  genome  regression  and
prediction  methods  applied  to  plant  and  animal  breeding.  Genet-
ics  193,  327 –345
14.  Cerón-Rojas,  J.J.  et  al.  (2015)  A  genomic  selection  index  applied
to  simulated  and  real  data.  G3  5,  2155 –2164
15.  LeCun,  Y.  et  al.  (2015)  Deep  learning.  Nature  521,  436 –444
16.  Gianola,  D.  et  al.  (2006)  Genomic-assisted  prediction  of  genetic
values  with  a  semi-parametric  procedure.  Genetics  173,
1761 –1776
17.  Gianola,  D.  et  al.  (2011)  Predicting  complex  quantitative  traits  with
Bayesian  neural  networks:  a  case  study  with  Jersey  cows  and
wheat.  BMC  Genet.  12,  87
18.  González-Camacho,  J.M.  et  al.  (2012)  Genome-enabled  predic-
tion  of  genetic  values  using  Radial  Basis  Function  Neural  Net-
works.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  125,  759 –771
19.  González-Camacho,  J.M.  et  al.  (2016)  Genome-enabled  predic-
tion  using  probabilistic  neural  network  classi ﬁers.  BMC  Genomics
17,  208
20.  Pérez-Rodríguez,  P.  et  al.  (2012)  A  comparison  between  linear
and  non-parametric  regression  models  for  genome-enabled  pre-
diction  in  wheat.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  2,  1595 –1605
21.  Ornella,  L.  et  al.  (2014)  Genomic-enabled  prediction  with  classi ﬁ-
cation  algorithms.  Heredity  112,  616 –626
22.  Gonzalez-Recio,  O.  et  al.  (2014)  Machine  learning  methods  and
predictive  ability  metrics  for  genome-wide  prediction  of  complex
traits.  Livest.  Sci.  166,  217 –23123.  Burgueño,  J.  et  al.  (2012)  Genomic  prediction  of  breeding  values
when  modeling  genotype  /C2  environment  interaction  using  pedi-
gree  and  dense  molecular  markers.  Crop  Sci.  52,  707 –719
24.  Jarquín,  D.  et  al.  (2014)  A  reaction  norm  model  for  genomic
selection  using  high-dimensional  genomic  and  environmental
data.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  127,  595 –607
25.  Jarquín,  D.  et  al.  (2016)  Genotyping  by  sequencing  for  genomic
prediction  in  a  soybean  breeding  population.  BMC  Genomics  15,
740
26.  Jarquín,  D.  et  al.  (2017)  Increasing  genomic-enabled  prediction
accuracy  by  modeling  genotype  /C2  environment  interaction  in
Kansas  wheat.  Plant  Genome  Published  online  June  8,  2017.
http://dx.doi.org/10.3835/plantgenome2016.12.0130
27.  Saint-Pierre,  C.  et  al.  (2016)  Genomic  prediction  models  for  grain
yield  of  spring  bread  wheat  in  diverse  agro-ecological  zones.  Sci.
Rep.  6,  27312
28.  Bernardo,  R.  and  Yu,  J.M.  (2007)  Prospects  for  genome-wide
selection  for  quantitative  traits  in  maize.  Crop  Sci.  47,  1082 –1090
29.  Lorenzana,  R.E.  and  Bernardo,  R.  (2009)  Accuracy  of  genotypic
value  predictions  for  marker-based  selection  in  biparental  plant
populations.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  120,  151 –161
30.  Heffner,  E.L.  et  al.  (2009)  Genomic  selection  for  crop  improve-
ment.  Crop  Sci.  49,  1–12
31.  Heffner,  E.L.  et  al.  (2010)  Plant  breeding  with  genomic  selection:
gain  per  unit  time  and  cost.  Crop  Sci.  50,  1681 –1690
32.  de  los  Campos,  G.  et  al.  (2009)  Predicting  quantitative  traits  with
regression  models  for  dense  molecular  markers  and  pedigree.
Genetics  182,  375 –385
33.  de  los  Campos,  G.  et  al.  (2010)  Semi-parametric  genomic-
enabled  prediction  of  genetic  values  using  reproducing  kernel
Hilbert  spaces  methods.  Genet.  Res.  92,  295 –308
34.  Crossa,  J.  et  al.  (2010)  Prediction  of  genetic  values  of  quantitative
traits  in  plant  breeding  using  pedigree  and  molecular  markers.
Genetics  186,  713 –724
35.  Crossa,  J.  et  al.  (2011)  Genomic  selection  and  prediction  in  plant
breeding.  J.  Crop  Improv.  25,  239 –226
36.  Crossa,  J.  et  al.  (2013)  Genomic  prediction  in  maize  breeding
populations  with  genotyping-by-sequencing.  G3:  Genes|
Genomes|Genetics  3,  1903 –1926
37.  Crossa,  J.  et  al.  (2014)  Genomic  prediction  in  CIMMYT  maize  and
wheat  breeding  programs.  Heredity  112,  48–60
38.  Pérez-Rodríguez,  P.  and  de  los  Campos,  G.  (2014)  Genome-
wide  regression  and  prediction  with  the  BGLR  statistical  pack-
age.  Genetics  198,  483 –495
39.  Hickey,  J.M.  et  al.  (2012)  Factors  affecting  the  accuracy  of  geno-
type  imputation  in  populations  from  several  maize  breeding  pro-
grams.  Crop  Sci.  52,  654 –663
40.  Riedelsheimer,  C.  et  al.  (2012)  Genomic  and  metabolic  prediction
of  complex  heterotic  traits  in  hybrid  maize.  Nat.  Genet.  44,
217 –220
41.  Zhao,  Y.  et  al.  (2012)  Accuracy  of  genomic  selection  in  European
maize  elite  breeding  populations.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  124,
769 –776
42.  Windhausen,  V.S.  et  al.  (2012)  Effectiveness  of  genomic  predic-
tion  of  maize  hybrid  performance  in  different  breeding  populations
and  environments.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  2,  1427 –1436
974  Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11
43.  Technow,  F.  et  al.  (2013)  Genomic  prediction  of  northern  corn  leaf
blight  resistance  in  maize  with  combined  or  separated  training
sets  for  heterotic  groups.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  3,
197 –203
44.  Massman,  J.M.  et  al.  (2013)  Genome-wide  selection  versus
marker-assisted  recurrent  selection  to  improve  grain  yield  and
stover-quality  traits  for  cellulosic  ethanol  in  maize.  Crop  Sci.  53,
58–66
45.  Asoro,  F.G.  et  al.  (2013)  Genomic,  marker-assisted,  and  pedi-
gree-BLUP  selection  methods  for  b-glucan  concentration  in  elite
oat.  Crop  Sci.  53,  1894 –1906
46.  Combs,  E.  and  Bernardo,  R.  (2013)  Genome-wide  selection  to
introgress  semidwarf  corn  germplasm  into  U.S.  Corn  Belt
inbreds.  Crop  Sci.  53,  1427 –1436
47.  Beyene,  Y.  et  al.  (2015)  Genetic  gains  in  grain  yield  through
genomic  selection  in  eight  bi-parental  maize  populations  under
drought  stress.  Crop  Sci.  55,  154c163
48.  Rutkoski,  J.  et  al.  (2015)  Genetic  gain  from  phenotypic  and
genomic  selection  for  quantitative  resistance  to  stem  rust  of
wheat.  Plant  Genome  8,  1–10
49.  VanRaden,  P.M.  (2007)  Genomic  measures  of  relationship  and
inbreeding.  Interbull  Annu.  Meet.  Proc.  37,  33–36
50.  VanRaden,  P.M.  (2008)  Efﬁcient  methods  to  compute  genomic
predictions.  J.  Dairy  Sci.  91,  4414 –4423
51.  Heslot,  N.  et  al.  (2012)  Genomic  selection  in  plant  breeding:  a
comparison  of  models.  Crop  Sci.  52,  146 –160
52.  Heslot,  N.  et  al.  (2014)  Integrating  environmental  covariates  and
crop  modeling  into  the  genomic  selection  framework  to  predict
genotype  by  environment  interactions.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  127,
463 –480
53.  López-Cruz,  M.  et  al.  (2015)  Increased  prediction  accuracy  in
wheat  breeding  trials  using  a  marker  /C2  environment  interaction
genomic  selection  model.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  5,
569 –582
54.  Crossa,  J.  et  al.  (2016)  Extending  the  Marker  /C2  Environment
interaction  model  for  genomic-enabled  prediction  and
genome-wide  association  analyses  in  durum  wheat.  Crop  Sci.
56,  1–17
55.  Cuevas,  J.  et  al.  (2016)  Genomic  prediction  of  genotype  -
/C2  environment  interaction  kernel  regression  models.  Plant
Genome  Published  online  September  22,  2016.  http://dx.doi.
org/10.3835/plantgenome2016.03.0024
56.  Cuevas,  J.  et  al.  (2017)  Bayesian  genomic  prediction  with  gen-
otype  /C2  environment  interaction  kernel  models.  G3:  Genes|
Genomes|Genetics  7,  41–53
57.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2015)  Threshold  models  for
genome-enabled  prediction  of  ordinal  categorical  traits  in  plant
breeding.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  5,  291 –300
58.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2015)  Genomic-enabled  predic-
tion  of  ordinal  data  with  Bayesian  logistic  ordinal  regression.  G3:
Genes|Genomes|Genetics  5,  2113 –2126
59.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2015)  Genomic  prediction  models
for  count  data.  J.  Agric.  Biol.  Environ.  Stat.  20,  533 –554
60.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2016)  Genomic  Bayesian  predic-
tion  model  for  count  data  with  genotype  /C2  environment  interac-
tion.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  6,  1165 –1177
61.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2017)  A  Bayesian  poisson-log-
normal  model  for  count  data  for  multiple-trait  multiple-environ-
ment  genomic-enabled  prediction.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|
Genetics  7,  1595 –1606
62.  Gianola,  D.  and  van  Kaam,  J.B.C.H.M.  (2008)  Reproducing  ker-
nel  hilbert  space  regression  methods  for  genomic-assisted  pre-
diction  of  quantitative  traits.  Genetics  178,  2289 –230363.  Philomin,  J.  et  al.  (2017)  Comparison  of  models  and  whole-
genome  proﬁling  approaches  for  genomic-enabled  prediction
of  Septoria  tritici  blotch,  Stagonospora  nodorum  blotch,  and
tan  spot  resistance  in  wheat.  Plant  Genome  10,  1–16
64.  Philomin,  J.  et  al.  (2017)  Genomic  and  pedigree-based  prediction
for  leaf,  stem,  and  stripe  rust  resistance  in  wheat.  Theor.  Appl.
Genet.  130,  1415 –1430
65.  Varshney,  R.K.  (2016)  Exciting  journey  of  10  years  from  genomes
to  ﬁelds  and  markets:  some  success  stories  of  genomics-
assisted  breeding  in  chickpea,  pigeonpea  and  groundnut.  Plant
Sci.  242,  98–107
66.  Roorkiwal,  M.  et  al.  (2016)  Genome-enabled  prediction  models
for  yield  related  traits  in  chickpea.  Front.  Plant  Sci.  7,  1666
67.  Sukumaran,  S.  et  al.  (2017)  Genomic  prediction  with  pedigree
and  genotype  /C2  environment  interaction  in  spring  wheat  grown  in
South  and  West  Asia,  North  Africa,  and  Mexico.  G3:  Genes|
Genomes|Genetics  7,  481 –197
68.  Pérez  Rodríguez,  P.  et  al.  (2015)  A  pedigree  reaction  norm  model
for  prediction  of  cotton  (Gossypium  sp.)  yield  in  multi-environment
trials.  Crop  Sci.  55,  1143 –1151
69.  Crossa,  J.  et  al.  (2016)  Genomic  prediction  of  gene  bank  wheat
landraces.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|Genetics  6,  1819 –1834
70.  Govidan,  V.  et  al.  (2016)  Genomic  prediction  for  grain  zinc  and
iron  concentrations  in  spring  wheat.  Theor.  Appl.  Genet.  129,
1595 –1605
71.  Pérez-Rodríguez,  P.  et  al.  (2017)  Single-step  genomic  and  pedi-
gree  genotype  /C2  environment  interaction  models  for  predicting
wheat  lines  in  international  environments.  Plant  Genome  Pub-
lished  online  May  5,  2017.  http://dx.doi.org/10.3835/
plantgenome2016.09.0089
72.  Vivek,  B.S.  et  al.  (2017)  Use  of  genomic  estimated  breeding
values  results  in  rapid  genetic  gains  for  drought  tolerance  in
maize.  Plant  Genome  10,  1–8
73.  Zhang,  X.  et  al.  (2017)  Rapid  cycling  genomic  selection  in  a
multiparental  tropical  maize  population.  G3:  Genes|Genomes|
Genetics  7,  1–12
74.  Montesinos-López,  O.A.  et  al.  (2017)  Predicting  grain  yield  using
canopy  hyperspectral  reﬂectance  in  wheat  breeding  data.  Plant
Methods  13,  4
75.  Rutkoski,  J.  et  al.  (2016)  Predictor  traits  from  high-throughput
phenotyping  improve  accuracy  of  pedigree  and  genomic  selec-
tion  for  grain  yield  in  wheat.  G3  6,  2799 –2808
76.  Reynolds,  M.  and  Langridge,  P.  (2016)  Physiological  breeding.
Curr.  Opin.  Plant  Biol.  31,  162 –171
77.  Sun,  J.  et  al.  (2017)  Multi-trait,  random  regression,  or  simple
repeatability  model  in  high-throughput  phenotyping  data  improve
genomic  prediction  for  grain  yield  in  wheat.  Plant  Genome  Pub-
lished  online  Mary  18,  2017.  http://dx.doi.org/10.3835/
plantgenome2016.11.011
78.  Montesinos-López,  A.  et  al.  (2017)  Genomic  Bayesian  functional
regression  models  with  interactions  for  predicting  wheat  grain
yield  using  hyper-spectral  image  data.  Plant  Methods  62,  13
79.  McCouch,  S.  et  al.  (2012)  Genomics  of  gene  bank:  a  case  study
for  rice.  Am.  J.  Bot.  99,  407 –423
80.  Yu,  X.  et  al.  (2016)  Genomic  prediction  contributing  to  a  promising
global  strategy  to  turbocharge  gene  banks.  Nat.  Plants  2,  16150
81.  Gorjanc,  G.  et  al.  (2016)  Initiating  maize  pre-breeding  programs
using  genomic  selection  to  harness  polygenic  variation  from
landrace  populations.  BMC  Genomics  17,  30
Trends  in  Plant  Science,  November  2017,  Vol.  22,  No.  11  975
